.\"
.\" Copyright (C) 1994, 1995, 1996,
.\"
.\" Department of Computing Science,
.\" University of Newcastle upon Tyne,
.\" Newcastle upon Tyne,
.\" UK.
.\"
.\" $Id: ClassName.3,v 1.3 1996/01/02 13:25:39 nsmw Exp $
.\"
.TH ClassName 3 "15 March 94" "Gandiva" "C++ class"
.SH NAME
\fBClassName\fR \- instances of this class represent class names, for run-time
class identification.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B "#ifndef COMMON_CLASSNAME_H_"
.br
.B "#   include <Common/ClassName.h>"
.br
.B "#endif"
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBClassName\fR objects are used to represent the class names of objects. This
allows run-time identification of the classes that objects belong to.
.SS PUBLIC OPERATIONS
.TP
.B "ClassName(const char *classNameString)"
Creates and initialises an instance of the class \fBClassName\fR, using the string 
\fIclassNameString\fR. The \fIclassNameString\fR string can be
deallocated after use. (Strings starting with '$' are reserved for special
purposes.) 
.TP
.B "ClassName(const ClassName &className)"
Creates and initialises an instance of the class \fBClassName\fR, using
\fIclassName\fR.
.TP
.B "virtual ~ClassName()"
.TP
.B "ClassName &operator= (const ClassName &className)"
Assigns \fIclassName\fR to the object that the operation is applied to.
.TP
.B "Boolean operator== (const ClassName &className) const"
The value returned corresponds to the comparison for equality of \fIclassName\fR
and the object that the operation is applied to.
.TP
.B "Boolean operator!= (const ClassName &className) const"
The value returned corresponds to the comparison for inequality of \fIclassName\fR and
the object that the operation is applied to.
.TP
.B "const char *stringForm() const"
Returns a string form of the object that the operation is applied to. This string
should be deleted when finished with.
.TP
.B "Boolean pack(Buffer &buffer) const"
Packs the \fBClassName\fR object state into the \fBBuffer\fR object specified by
\fIbuffer\fR, in a form suitable for unpacking using the \fIunpack\fR operation.
.TP
.B "Boolean unpack(Buffer &buffer)"
Unpacks the \fBClassName\fR object state from the \fBBuffer\fR object specified by
\fIbuffer\fR, which has been packed using the \fIpack\fR operation.
.TP
.B "void print(ostream &ostr) const"
Prints on \fIostr\fR a representation of the object.
.SS STATIC PUBLIC OPERATIONS
.TP
.B "const ClassName &invalid()"
Returns a special \fBClassName\fR object that does not corresponds to any class.
.SS RELATED OPERATIONS
.TP
.B "ostream &operator<< (ostream &ostr, const ClassName &className)"
Prints on \fIostr\fR a representation of \fIclassName\fR.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR Boolean(3),
.BR Buffer(3).
